Immune evasion strategies (#565)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/02.introduction.md

One of the main immune responses that contribute to the onset of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) in COVID-19 patients is the cytokine storm, which causes an extreme inflammatory response due to a release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines by immune effector cells.
In addition to respiratory distress, this mechanism leads to organ failure and death in severe COVID-19 cases [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].

There are several ways in which the SARS-CoV virus can evade the human immune response.
One way is through CD163+ and CD68+ macrophage cells which are crucial for the establishment of SARS in the body [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
These cells most likely serve as viral reservoirs that help shield SARS-CoV from the innate immune response.

> According to a study on the viral dissemination of SARS-CoV in Chinese macaques, the expression of CD163 cells was reduced in viral RNA+ cells when monocytes differentiate toward dendritic cells [@doi: 10.1038/mi.2015.127].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to a study on the viral dissemination of SARS-CoV in Chinese macaques, the expression of CD163 cells was reduced in viral RNA+ cells when monocytes differentiate toward dendritic cells [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
```

> This lack of active viral replication allows SARS-CoV to escape innate immunity because reduced levels of viral RNA allow the virus to avoid both natural killer (NK) cells and Toll-like receptors [@doi: 10.1038/mi.2015.127].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lack of active viral replication allows SARS-CoV to escape innate immunity because reduced levels of viral RNA allow the virus to avoid both natural killer (NK) cells and Toll-like receptors [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
```

This evasion mechanism, in turn, can lead to systemic infection.

SARS-CoV also evades the immune response by interfering with type I IFN induction signaling which is a mechanism that leads to cellular resistance to viral infections.

> SARS-CoV employs methods such as ubiquitination and degradation of RNA sensor adaptor molecules MAVS and TRAF3/6 [@doi: 10.12932/AP-200220-0772].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SARS-CoV employs methods such as ubiquitination and degradation of RNA sensor adaptor molecules MAVS and TRAF3/6 [@doi:10.12932/AP-200220-0772].
```

MERS-CoV also utilizes these mechanisms, as well as histone modification.

> Also, MERS-CoV downregulates antigen presentation via MHC class I and MHC class II, which leads to a reduction in T cell activation [@doi: 10.12932/AP-200220-0772].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, MERS-CoV downregulates antigen presentation via MHC class I and MHC class II, which leads to a reduction in T cell activation [@doi:10.12932/AP-200220-0772].
```

In addition to respiratory distress, this mechanism leads to organ failure and death in severe COVID-19 cases [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].

There are several ways in which the SARS-CoV virus can evade the human immune response.
One way is through CD163+ and CD68+ macrophage cells which are crucial for the establishment of SARS in the body [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
These cells most likely serve as viral reservoirs that help shield SARS-CoV from the innate immune response.
According to a study on the viral dissemination of SARS-CoV in Chinese macaques, the expression of CD163 cells was reduced in viral RNA+ cells when monocytes differentiate toward dendritic cells [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
This lack of active viral replication allows SARS-CoV to escape innate immunity because reduced levels of viral RNA allow the virus to avoid both natural killer (NK) cells and Toll-like receptors [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].

> Another strategy that SARS-CoV utilizes is virulence factors.
> SARS-CoV uses nonstructural protein 1 (Nsp1) to suppress host gene expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another strategy that SARS-CoV utilizes to increase its virulence is the suppression of host gene expression by nonstructural protein 1 (Nsp1).
```
Combine these two lines?

> Nsp1 accomplishes this by stalling mRNA translation, and inducing endonucleolytic cleavage and mRNA degradation [@doi:10.1126/science.abc8665].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nsp1 accomplishes this by stalling mRNA translation and inducing endonucleolytic cleavage and mRNA degradation [@doi:10.1126/science.abc8665].
```

These evasion mechanisms, in turn, can lead to systemic infection.

> SARS-CoV also evades the immune response by interfering with type I IFN induction signaling which is a mechanism that leads to cellular resistance to viral infections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SARS-CoV also evades the immune response by interfering with type I IFN induction signaling, which is a mechanism that leads to cellular resistance to viral infections.
```
